Add interview task descriptions (#2)
mmcfarland/civicapps-interview-project: README.md

## Overview

This repository contains the beginnings of a key/value database server.
During the interview, the candidate will pair with Azavea engineers to
extend the server's functionality. This server is available in both Python

> and JavaScript variants. The goal of the project is to simulate a set of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and JavaScript variants. The goal of this project is to simulate a set of
```

## Overview

This repository contains the beginnings of a key/value database server.
During the interview, the candidate will pair with an Azavea engineer to
extend the server's functionality. This server is available in both Python
and JavaScript variants. The goal of the project is to simulate a set of

> real-world tasks that will allow the candidate to demonstrate skills and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
real-world tasks that will allow candidates to demonstrate the skills and
```

> knowledge required for this role with a project that is understandable but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
knowledge required for this role with a project of limited scope.
```

> does not require significant context as a prerequisite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

After this, the server will be running at <http://localhost:8080>.

### Setting up the development environment

Create a development environment that is conducive for the candidate to edit
and exercise their code. Ensure that all key components are in working order
before the interview begins.

1. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) with Python
   and JavaScript syntax highlighting
2. [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/downloads/) or other graphical HTTP
   request tool
3. Web browser and internet connection
4. Command line terminal
5. Running server, in the language preferred by the candidate

## The interview

### Baseline implementation

The baseline server implementation has 3 endpoints:

- `/`: serves a welcome message and confirms the site is running
- `/set/?{key}={value}`: persists the key and value to an in-memory data structure
- `/keys/`: returns all keys and values persisted, delimited by a newline

> The server does not have any explicit bugs or "gotchas" that are intended to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server does not have any known bugs or "gotchas" that are intended to
```

> trip up or confuse the candidate. Instead, it is left with intentional areas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
trip up or confuse the candidate. Instead, it has a few intentional areas
```

for improvement. Notably:

- The data is stored in-memory and therefore not persisted when auto-reloading the
  server after source files change.
- There is no explicit error handling.
- No ability to fetch individual keys.
- Not all methods restrict the HTTP verb as appropriate (e.g., `/set` uses `GET`).

The interview process should be structured around making incremental
improvements to the server and evaluating the candidate's ability to

> understand the codebase and requirements, and perform the actual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
understand the codebase, requirements, and perform the actual
```

implementation. Aim to guide the exercise in a way that gives you insight
into the candidate's skills and behaviors. For example, if the candidate is
getting stuck and is unable to follow your prompts to make progress, note it
and move on to another feature requirement.

The candidate is allowed to use whatever resources would be available to them

> during the normal course of their job. For example, looking up documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
during the normal course of a work day. For example, looking up documentation,
```

> or using Stack Overflow is acceptable, as well as asking questions to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
making use of Stack Overflow, and asking the interviewer questions are all acceptable.
```

> interviewer. How they go about doing this will provide valuable signals for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How they go about doing this will provide valuable signals for
```

1. The candidate may not be proficient in either programming language
    available, but this gives us the opportunity to assess how quickly they may
    be able to acquire these skills based on their ability to translate their
    existing knowledge.
2. Do they understand the basics of HTTP and map those
   concepts correctly to the framework?
3. Do they structure their questions
   clearly and specifically?

#### 2. Persist the key/values between process restarts

If the server process crashes or is reloaded after a code change, the in-memory data
structure is reset. Have the candidate persist keys/values in a way that
makes them resilient to server restarts. A common approach is to write the contents to disk
and reload it when the service starts, but allow the candidate to suggest possible implementations.

##### Evaluation criteria

Does the candidate:

1. Understand why the in-memory structure works, and why it is empty after a
   restart?
2. Understand basic I/O concepts (e.g., line based I/O vs. entire file, text encoding, etc.)?
3. Discuss tradeoffs between the different options of when to save and load
   data? Depending on their implementation, this could involve:

>    - Having two sources of truth: file persisted to disk and an in-memory data structure?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Having two sources of truth: file persisted to disk and an in-memory data structure
```

>    - Performance implications of reading and writing on every request vs. at startup and shutdown?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Performance implications of reading and writing on every request vs. at startup and shutdown
```

4. Understand the lifecycle of a server: process re/start, request, response and where
   in the framework they can respond to each?

> 5. Handle boundary cases (e.g., starting with no keys loaded, loading 100MM)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Handle boundary cases (e.g., starting with no keys loaded, loading 100MM keys)?
```

6. Allow duplicate keys? The in-memory dictionary structure updates existing keys.

#### 3. Fetch key by name

Add a new endpoint that returns the value of the provided key.

##### Evaluation criteria

Does the candidate:

1. Understand how to add a new route and function?
2. Use sensible names for the path and the key?
3. Demonstrate understanding of the methods for encoding the query in the

>    request? (i.e. query string param vs path argument vs. form encoded `POST`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   request? (e.g., query string param vs path argument vs. form encoded `POST`)
```

4. Handle common boundary cases, like non-existing keys and null keys?
5. Are they concerned about sanitizing user input?

#### 4. Filter keys by prefix

Add or extend an endpoint to return a list of all keys and values that match the

> provided prefix. For example, the prefix "na" would match "name" and "nation".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provided prefix. For example, the prefix `na` would match `name` and `nation`.
```

As an extension, have them sort the returned list in lexicographical key order.

##### Evaluation criteria

1. Is their method of filtering keys efficient?

> 2. How is an empty result set represented? Do they consider case sensitivity?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. How is an empty result set represented?
3. Do they consider case sensitivity?
```

#### 5. Delete key by name

Delete the entry for a key provided. This will likely be a new endpoint, but allow
the candidate to suggest the implementation.

##### Evaluation criteria

1. This is similar to the fetch endpoint added above, did they retain knowledge
   and improve the speed at which they could add this feature?

> 2. Did they select an appropriate HTTP verb for this operation?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Did they select an appropriate HTTP verb for this operation?
3. Is the entry deleted from both the in-memory and on disk database representations?
```

1. Can they write code?
2. Can they make sensible design decisions?
3. Can they work well with other people?

### Common anti-patterns

- **Poor communicator**: It's unclear how they reached their conclusion, or they
  talk at length without answering a direct question.
- **Poor code quality**: Poor implementation choices, poorly organized or
  formatted.
- **Doesn't explore the problem before jumping into a solution**: Doesn't
  validate assumptions or identify edge cases up front.
- **Broad gaps in knowledge**: Large areas of knowledge that are only shallowly
  understood.
- **Not self-motivated**: Needs excessive instruction to move to the next step.
- **Not detail oriented**: Misses obvious edge cases, didn't understand the problem initially.
- **Veers into the weeds**: Suggests endless possible solutions, but
  struggles picking one to implement. Distracted by low priority details.
- **Solutions are overly complicated**: Makes up unnecessary requirements or
  assumptions, over-engineers or does not prioritize readability.
- **Doesn't interact with the interviewer**: Does not engage in a constructive or collaborative manner.

> - **Presents a condescending attitude**: Doesn't display engineering qualities like humbleness and respect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Presents a condescending attitude**: Doesn't display desirable engineering qualities like humility and empathy.
```

After this, the server will be running at <http://localhost:8080>.

### Setting up the development environment

> Create a development environment that is conducive for the candidate to edit

Reviewer: Tweaked this paragraph to the two sentences below. It doesn't seem necessary to reference candidate environment preference here since the reviewer is the intended audience.

> Provide a controlled development environment that is tailored for this exercise. Ensure that all key components are in working order before the interview begins.

and exercise their code. Candidates will likely have specific environments
they prefer to work in, but for efficiency our environment will have common
general-purpose tools. Ensure these are all in working order, and that the
server is running before the interview starts.

> 1. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) with Python

Reviewer: Might be a future optimization, but we should be able to persist installed extensions with [Settings Sync](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Shan.code-settings-sync). In addition, we can use the VSCode CLI to capture the steps to install the necessary plugins.

Author: I'll want to run this through it's paces a few times, but it might be nice to eventually have a scripted development environment that includes these things.

>    and Javascript syntax highlighting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and JavaScript syntax highlighting
```

2. [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/downloads/) or other graphical HTTP
   request tool
3. Web browser and internet connection
4. Command line terminal

> 5. Running server, in the language preferred by the candidate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Running server, in the language preferred of the candidate
```

## The interview

> ### Baseline starting implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Baseline implementation
```

The baseline server implementation has 3 endpoints:

- `/`: serves a welcome message and confirms the site is running
- `/set/?{key}={value}`: persists the key and value to an in-memory data structure

> - `/keys/`: returns all keys currently persisted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/keys/`: returns all keys and values persisted, delimited by a newline
```

The server does not have any explicit bugs or "gotchas" that are intended to trip

> up or confuse the candidate. Instead, it is left with intentional shortcomings and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
up or confuse the candidate. Instead, it is left with intentional
```

> areas for enhancements. Notably:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
areas for improvement. Notably:
```

> - The data is stored in-memory. The data is not persisted when auto-reloading the

Reviewer: I'd consider shortening this to one sentence or the other.

  server after source files change.
- There is no explicit error handling.
- No ability to fetch individual keys.

> - Not all methods restrict the HTTP verb as appropriate (`/set` uses `GET`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Not all methods restrict the HTTP verb as appropriate (e.g., `/set` uses `GET`).
```

The interview process should be structured around making incremental improvements
to the server and evaluating the candidate's ability to understand the

> codebase and requirements, and perform the actual implementation. Prefer to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
codebase and requirements, and perform the actual implementation. Aim to
```

guide the exercise in a way that gives you insight into the candidate's
skills and behaviors. For example, if the candidate is getting

> stuck and is unable to use your prompts to make progress, note it and move on to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stuck and is unable to follow your prompts to make progress, note it and move on to
```

another feature requirement.

The candidate is allowed to use whatever resources would be available to them during
the normal course of their job. For example, looking up documentation or
using Stack Overflow is acceptable, as well as asking questions to the

> interviewer. How they go about these are all valuable signals for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interviewer. How they go about doing this will provide valuable signals for the
```

interview.

### Programming tasks

#### 1. General understanding

Before the first task, ask the candidate to evaluate the code in the main
server source code file. Invite them to ask you questions or otherwise
clarify any confusing elements. Allow them to scan the framework documentation

> or explore the Docker file that creates the server if they express an interest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or explore the `Dockerfile` that creates the server.
```

##### Evaluation criteria

> 1. The candidate may not be proficient in either programming language

Reviewer: This feels less like evaluation criteria and more a condition to help the reviewer navigate _if` the candidate is unfamiliar with either language. I'd consider revising this to:

> Are they able to familiarize themselves with a foreign codebase effectively?

    available, but this gives us the opportunity to assess how quickly they may
    be able to acquire these skills based on their ability to translate their
    existing knowledge.

> 2. Do they understand the basics of HTTP requests and responses and map these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Do they understand the basics of HTTP and map those
```

   concepts correctly to the framework?

> 3. Do they demonstrate methodical learning by structuring their questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Do they structure their questions
```

   clearly and specifically?

#### 2. Persist the key/values between process restarts

> If the server process crashes or is reloaded during code changes, the in-memory data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the server process crashes or is reloaded after a code change, the in-memory data
```

> structure is reinitialized. Have the candidate persist the keys/values in a way that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
structure is reset. Have the candidate persist keys/values in a way that
```

> makes them resilient to server restarts. This will likely involve writing to disk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
makes them resilient to server restarts. A common approach is to write the contents to disk
```

> and reloading the data, but allow the candidate to suggest possible implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and reload it when the service starts, but allow the candidate to suggest possible implementations.
```

##### Evaluation criteria

Does the candidate:

1. Understand why the in-memory structure works, and why it is empty after a
   restart?

> 2. Understand basic I/O concepts?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Understand basic I/O concepts (e.g., line based I/O vs. entire file, text encoding, etc.)?
```

3. Discuss tradeoffs between the different options of when to save and load
   data? Depending on their implementation, this could involve:

>    - Having two sources of truth in a file persisted data store and an in-memory store?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Having two sources of truth: file persisted to disk and an in-memory data structure?
```

>    - Performance implications of reading the entire file on every request vs at start-up?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Performance implications of reading and writing on every request vs. at startup and shutdown?
```

> 4. Understand the life cycle of server: process re/start, request, response and where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Understand the lifecycle of a server: process re/start, request, response and where
```

>    in the framework they can respond to them?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   in the framework they can respond to each?
```

> 5. Handle empty cases (i.e., starting with no keys loaded)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Handle boundary cases (e.g., starting with no keys loaded, loading 100MM)?
```

6. Allow duplicate keys? The in-memory dictionary structure updates existing keys.

#### 3. Fetch key by name

Add a new endpoint that returns the value of the provided key.

##### Evaluation criteria

Does the candidate:

1. Understand how to add a new route and function?
2. Use sensible names for the path and the key?
3. Demonstrate understanding of the methods for encoding the query in the

>    request? (i.e. query string param vs path argument vs form encoded POST)

Reviewer: I used `e.g.,` a bunch earlier. Feel free to use either that or `i.e.,` consistently before finalizing the PR.
```suggestion
   request? (i.e. query string param vs path argument vs. form encoded `POST`)
```

> 4. Handle common edge cases, like non-existing keys and null keys?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Handle common boundary cases, like non-existing keys and null keys?
```

5. Are they concerned about sanitizing user input?

#### 4. Filter keys by prefix

Add or extend an endpoint to return a list of all keys and values that match the

> provided prefix. For example, the prefix "na" would match "name" and "nationality".

Reviewer: Trying to stay as conservative as possible:

```suggestion
provided prefix. For example, the prefix "na" would match "name" and "nation".
```

As an extension, have them sort the returned list in lexicographical key order.

##### Evaluation criteria

> 1. Is their method of filtering keys efficient?

Reviewer: What were you thinking here? Keeping the data structure sorted in-memory? Only traversing the list once vs. all of the keys, then a lookup for each match?

> 2. Does it handle edge cases as above, and do they consider case sensitivity?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. How is an empty result set represented? Do they consider case sensitivity?
```

#### 5. Delete key by name

Delete the entry for a key provided. This will likely be a new endpoint, but allow
the candidate to suggest the implementation.

##### Evaluation criteria

> 1. This is similar to the fetch endpoint added above, did they retain knowledge

Reviewer: I'd also consider adding something that asks what HTTP method they used to carry this operation out.

   and improve the speed at which they could add this feature?

#### Additional tasks

In the unlikely event that the candidate makes it through all the previous tasks in
the alloted time, ask the candidate to suggest other improvements they would make

> and engage in conversations about their implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and engage in conversations about their suggested implementation.
```

## General evaluation criteria

Here are additional high level considerations, taken from [The Software Engineer's Guide to
Interviewing](https://blog.usejournal.com/the-software-engineers-guide-to-interviewing-software-engineers-980bbfdb4006):

1. Can they write code?
2. Can they make sensible design decisions?
3. Can they work well with other people?

### Common anti-patterns

- Poor communicator
- Poor code quality
- Doesn't explore the problem before jumping into a solution
- Broad gaps in knowledge

> - Not self-motivated

Reviewer: How would you see this manifesting itself in an interview like this?

Author: I copied these bullets verbatim from the blog post, but absent the associated context, it may be better for me to take a pass at these to add more detail.

- Not detail-oriented

> - Veers into the weeds

Reviewer: I would consider making this more explicit:

> - Suggests endless possible solutions, but struggles picking one to implement
> - Refactors existing solution and has difficulty making forward progress

Author: Same as above, I'll expand the detail in this section.

- Solutions are overly complicated
- Doesn't interact with the interviewer

> - Condescending

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Presents a condescending attitude
```
